README.md, before:

[![Test Build Status](https://github.com/Studiosity/grover/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Studiosity/grover/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/37609653789bcf2c8d94/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Studiosity/grover/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/37609653789bcf2c8d94/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Studiosity/grover/test_coverage)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/grover.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/grover)

# Grover

A Ruby gem to transform HTML into PDFs, PNGs or JPEGs using [Google Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer)
and [Chromium](https://www.chromium.org/Home).

![Grover](/Grover.jpg "Grover")

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'grover'
```

### Google Puppeteer
```bash
npm install puppeteer
```


## Usage
```ruby
# Grover.new accepts a URL or inline HTML and optional parameters for Puppeteer
grover = Grover.new('https://google.com', format: 'A4')

# Get an inline PDF
pdf = grover.to_pdf

# Get a screenshot
png = grover.to_png
jpeg = grover.to_jpeg

# Get the HTML content (including DOCTYPE)
html = grover.to_html

# Options can be provided through meta tags
Grover.new('<html><head><meta name="grover-page_ranges" content="1-3"')
Grover.new('<html><head><meta name="grover-margin-top" content="10px"')
```

N.B.
* options are underscore case, and sub-options separated with a dash
* all options can be overwritten, including `emulate_media` and `display_url`

### From a view template
It's easy to render a normal Rails view template as a PDF, using Rails' [`render_to_string`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Rendering.html#method-i-render_to_string):

```ruby
html = MyController.new.render_to_string({
  template: 'controller/view',
  layout: 'my_layout',
  locals: { :@instance_var => ... }
})
pdf = Grover.new(html, **grover_options).to_pdf
```

### Relative paths
If calling Grover directly (not through middleware) you will need to either specify a `display_url` or modify your
HTML by converting any relative paths to absolute paths before passing to Grover.

This can be achieved using the HTML pre-processor helper:

```ruby
absolute_html = Grover::HTMLPreprocessor.process relative_html, 'http://my.server/', 'http'
```

This is important because Chromium will try and resolve any relative paths via the display url host. If not provided,
the display URL defaults to `http://example.com`.

#### Why would you pre-process the HTML rather than just use the `display_url`
There are many scenarios where specifying a different host of relative paths would be preferred. For example, your
server might be behind a NAT gateway and the display URL in front of it. The display URL might be shown in the
header/footer, and as such shouldn't expose details of your private network.

If you run into trouble, take a look at the [debugging](#debugging) section below which would allow you to inspect the
page content and devtools.


## Configuration
Grover can be configured to adjust the layout of the resulting PDF/image.

For available PDF options, see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagepdfoptions

Also available are the `emulate_media`, `cache`, `viewport`, `timeout`, `requestTimeout`, `convertTimeout`
and `launch_args` options.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.options = {
    format: 'A4',
    margin: {
      top: '5px',
      bottom: '10cm'
    },
    user_agent: 'Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; Win64; x64; rv:47.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/47.0',
    viewport: {
      width: 640,
      height: 480
    },
    prefer_css_page_size: true,
    emulate_media: 'screen',
    bypass_csp: true,
    media_features: [{ name: 'prefers-color-scheme', value: 'dark' }],
    timezone: 'Australia/Sydney',
    vision_deficiency: 'deuteranopia',
    extra_http_headers: { 'Accept-Language': 'en-US' },
    geolocation: { latitude: 59.95, longitude: 30.31667 },
    focus: '#some-element',
    hover: '#another-element',
    cache: false,
    timeout: 0, # Timeout in ms. A value of `0` means 'no timeout'
    request_timeout: 1000, # Timeout when fetching the content (overloads the `timeout` option)
    convert_timeout: 2000, # Timeout when converting the content (overloads the `timeout` option, only applies to PDF conversion)
    launch_args: ['--font-render-hinting=medium'],
    wait_until: 'domcontentloaded'
  }
end
```

For available PNG/JPEG options, see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagescreenshotoptions

Note that by default the `full_page` option is set to false and you will get a 800x600 image. You can either specify
the image size using the `clip` options, or capture the entire page with `full_page` set to `true`.

For `viewport` options, see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagesetviewportviewport

For `launch_args` options, see http://peter.sh/experiments/chromium-command-line-switches/
Launch parameter args can also be provided using a meta tag:

For `timezone` IDs see [ICUs metaZones.txt](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/icu/source/data/misc/metaZones.txt?rcl=faee8bc70570192d82d2978a71e2a615788597d1).
Passing `nil` disables timezone emulation.

The `vision_deficiency` option can be passed one of `achromatopsia`, `deuteranopia`, `protanopia`, `tritanopia`,
`blurredVision` or `none`.

The `focus` option takes a CSS selector and will focus on the first matching element after rendering is complete
(including waiting for the specified `wait_for_selector`).

The `hover` option takes a CSS selector and will hover on the first matching element after rendering is complete
(including waiting for the specified `wait_for_selector`).

```html
<meta name="grover-launch_args" content="['--disable-speech-api']" />
```

For `wait_until` option, default for URLs is `networkidle2` and for HTML content `networkidle0`.
For available options see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagegotourl-options

The `wait_for_selector` option can also be used to wait until an element appears on the page. Additional waiting parameters can be set with the `wait_for_selector_options` options hash. For available options, see: https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagewaitforselectorselector-options.

The `wait_for_function` option can be used to wait until a specific function returns a truthy value. Additional parameters can be set with the `wait_for_function_options` options hash. For available options, see: https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagewaitforfunctionpagefunction-options-args

The `wait_for_timeout` option can also be used to wait the specified number of milliseconds have elapsed.

The `raise_on_request_failure` option, when enabled, will raise a `Grover::JavaScript::RequestFailedError`
if the initial content request or any subsequent asset request returns a bad response or times out.

The Chrome/Chromium executable path can be overridden with the `executable_path` option.

Javascript can be executed on the page (after render and before conversion to PDF/image)
with the `execute_script` option.

#### Basic authentication
For requesting a page with basic authentication, `username` and `password` options can be provided. Note that this
only really makes sense if you're calling Grover directly (and not via middleware).

```ruby
Grover.new('<some URI with basic authentication', username: 'the username', password: 'super secret').to_pdf
```

#### Adding cookies
To set request cookies when requesting a URL, pass an array of hashes as such
_N.B._ Only the `name` and `value` properties are required.
See [page.setCookies](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagesetcookiecookies) documentation for more details.

```ruby
myCookies = [
  { name: 'sign_username', value: 'any@any.com', domain: 'mydomain' },
  { name: '_session_id', value: '9c014df0b699d8dc08d1c472f8cc594c', domain: 'mydomain' }
]
Grover.new('<some URI with cookies', cookies: myCookies).to_pdf
```

If you need to forward the cookies from the original request, you could extract them as such:

```ruby
def header_cookies
  request.headers['Cookie'].split('; ').map do |cookie|
    key, value = cookie.split '='
    { name: key, value: value, domain: request.headers['Host'] }
  end
end
```

And give that array to Grover:

```ruby
Grover.new('<some URI with cookies', cookies: header_cookies).to_pdf
```

#### Adding style tags
To add style tags, pass an array of style tag options as such
See [page.addStyleTag](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pageaddstyletagoptions) documentation for more details.

```ruby
style_tag_options = [
  { url: 'http://example.com/style.css' },
  { path: 'style.css' },
  { content: '.body{background: red}' }
]
Grover.new('<html><body><h1>Heading</h1></body></html>', style_tag_options: style_tag_options).to_pdf
```

#### Adding script tags
To add script tags, pass an array of script tag options as such
See [page.addScriptTag](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pageaddscripttagoptions) documentation for more details.

```ruby
script_tag_options = [
  { url: 'http://example.com/script.js' },
  { path: 'script.js' },
  { content: 'document.querySelector("h1").style.display = "none"' }
]
Grover.new('<html><body><h1>Heading</h1></body></html>', script_tag_options: script_tag_options).to_pdf
```


#### Page URL for middleware requests (or passing through raw HTML)
If you want to have the header or footer display the page URL, Grover requires that this is passed through via the
`display_url` option. This is because the page URL is not available in the raw HTML!

For Rack middleware conversions, the original request URL (without the .pdf extension) will be passed through and
assigned to `display_url` for you. You can of course override this by using a meta tag in the downstream HTML response.

For raw HTML conversions, if the `display_url` is not provided `http://example.com` will be used as the default.

#### Header and footer templates
Should be valid HTML markup with following classes used to inject printing values into them:
* `date` formatted print date
* `title` document title
* `url` document location
* `pageNumber` current page number
* `totalPages` total pages in the document


## Middleware
Grover comes with a middleware that allows users to get a PDF, PNG or JPEG view of
any page on your site by appending .pdf, .png or .jpeg/.jpg to the URL.

### Middleware Setup
**Non-Rails Rack apps**
```ruby
# in config.ru
require 'grover'
use Grover::Middleware
```

**Rails apps**
```ruby
# in application.rb
require 'grover'
config.middleware.use Grover::Middleware
```

N.B. by default PNG and JPEG are not modified in the middleware to prevent breaking standard behaviours.
To enable them, there are configuration options for each image type as well as an option to disable the PDF middleware
(on by default).

If either of the image handling middleware options are enabled, the [ignore_path](#ignore_path) and/or
[ignore_request](#ignore_request) should also be configured, otherwise assets are likely to be handled
which would likely result in 404 responses.  

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.use_png_middleware = true
  config.use_jpeg_middleware = true
  config.use_pdf_middleware = false
end
```

### root_url
The `root_url` option can be specified either when configuring the middleware or as a global option. This is needed
when running the Grover middleware behind a URL rewriting proxy or within a containerised system.

As a middleware option:
```ruby
# in application.rb
require 'grover'
config.middleware.use Grover::Middleware, root_url: 'https://my.external.domain'
```

or as a global option:
```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.root_url = 'https://my.external.domain'
end
```

#### ignore_path
The `ignore_path` configuration option can be used to tell Grover's middleware whether it should handle/modify
the response. There are three ways to set up the `ignore_path`:
 * a `String` which matches the start of the request path.
 * a `Regexp` which could match any part of the request path.
 * a `Proc` which accepts the request path as a parameter.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  # assigning a String
  config.ignore_path = '/assets/'
  # matches `www.example.com/assets/foo.png` and not `www.example.com/bar/assets/foo.png`

  # assigning a Regexp
  config.ignore_path = /my\/path/
  # matches `www.example.com/foo/my/path/bar.png`

  # assigning a Proc
  config.ignore_path = ->(path) do
    /\A\/foo\/.+\/[0-9]+\.png\z/.match path
  end
  # matches `www.example.com/foo/bar/123.png`
end
```

#### ignore_request
The `ignore_request` configuration option can be used to tell Grover's middleware whether it should handle/modify
the response. It should be set with a `Proc` which accepts the request (Rack::Request) as a parameter.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  # assigning a Proc
  config.ignore_request = ->(req) do
    req.host == 'www.example.com'
  end
  # matches `www.example.com/foo/bar/123.png`

  config.ignore_request = ->(req) do
    req.has_header?('X-BLOCK')
  end
  # matches `HTTP Header X-BLOCK`
end
```

## Cover pages

Since the header/footer for Puppeteer is configured globally, displaying of front/back cover
pages (with potentially different headers/footers etc) is not possible.

To get around this, Grover's middleware allows you to specify relative paths for the cover page contents.
For direct execution, you can make multiple calls and combine the resulting PDFs together.

### Using middleware

You can specify relative paths to the cover page contents using the `front_cover_path` and `back_cover_path`
options either via the global configuration, or via meta tags. These paths (with query parameters) are then
requested from the downstream app.

The cover pages are converted to PDF in isolation, and then combined together with the original PDF response,
before being returned back up through the Rack stack.

_N.B_ To simplify things, the same request method and body are used for the cover page requests.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.options = {
    front_cover_path: '/some/global/cover/page?foo=bar'
  }
end
```

Or via the meta tags in the original response:
```HTML
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="grover-back_cover_path" content="/back/cover/page?bar=baz" />
  </head>
  ...
</html>
```

### Direct execution

To add a cover page using direct execution, you can make multiple calls and combine the results using the
`combine_pdf` gem.

```rb
require 'combine_pdf'

  # ...

  def invoke(file_path)
    pdf = CombinePDF.parse(Grover.new(pdf_report_url).to_pdf)
    pdf >> CombinePDF.parse(Grover.new(pdf_front_cover_url).to_pdf)
    pdf << CombinePDF.parse(Grover.new(pdf_back_cover_url).to_pdf)
    pdf.save file_path
  end
```

## Running on Heroku

To run Grover (Puppeteer) on Heroku follow these steps:
1. Add the `node` buildpack. Puppeteer requires a node environment to run.
    ```
    heroku buildpacks:add heroku/nodejs --index=1 [--remote yourappname]
    ```

1. Add the [`puppeteer` buildpack](https://elements.heroku.com/buildpacks/jontewks/puppeteer-heroku-buildpack).
Make sure the `puppeteer` buildpack runs after the `node` buildpack and before the main `ruby` buildpack.
    ```
    heroku buildpacks:add jontewks/puppeteer --index=2 [--remote yourappname]
    ```

1. Next, tell Grover to run Puppeteer in the "no-sandbox" mode by setting an ENV variable
`GROVER_NO_SANDBOX=true` on your app dyno. Make sure that you trust all
the HTML/JS you provide to Grover.
    ```
    heroku config:set GROVER_NO_SANDBOX=true [--remote yourappname]
    ```

## Debugging
If you're having trouble with converting the HTML content, you can enable some debugging options to help. These can be
enabled as global options via `Grover.configure`, by passing through to the Grover initializer, or using meta tag
options.

```ruby
debug: {
  headless: false,  # Default true. When set to false, the Chromium browser will be displayed
  devtools: true    # Default false. When set to true, the browser devtools will be displayed.
}
```

N.B.
* The headless option disabled is not compatible with exporting of the PDF.
* If showing the devtools, the browser will halt resulting in a navigation timeout


## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/Studiosity/grover.

Note that spec tests are appreciated to minimise regressions. Before submitting a PR, please ensure that:

```bash
$ rspec
```
and

```bash
$ rubocop
```
both succeed


## Special mention
Thanks are given to the great work done in the [PDFKit project](https://github.com/pdfkit/pdfkit).
The middleware and HTML preprocessing components were used heavily in the implementation of Grover.

Thanks are also given to the excellent [Schmooze project](https://github.com/Shopify/schmooze).
The Ruby to NodeJS interface in Grover is heavily based off that work. Grover previously used that gem,
however migrated away due to differing requirements over persistence/cleanup of the NodeJS worker process.  

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Added puppeteer-core commit from original author

README.md, after:

[![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Studiosity/grover.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.org/Studiosity/grover)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/37609653789bcf2c8d94/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Studiosity/grover/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/37609653789bcf2c8d94/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Studiosity/grover/test_coverage)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/grover.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/grover)

# Grover

A Ruby gem to transform HTML into PDFs, PNGs or JPEGs using [Google Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer)
and [Chromium](https://www.chromium.org/Home).

![Grover](/Grover.jpg "Grover")

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'grover'
```

### Google Puppeteer
This will also install a compatible version of Chromium
```bash
npm install puppeteer
```


### Google Puppeteer core
If you want to manage the installation of Chromium/Chrome/Firefox yourself you can instead install `puppeteer-core`.
```bash
npm install puppeteer-core
```
You may need to specify to Grover the type of browser and where you have installed it via the options.
```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.options = {
    product: 'firefox',
    executable_path: '/my/path/to/firefox'
  }
end
```
N.B. Per the `puppeteer` documentation:
> BEWARE: Puppeteer is only guaranteed to work with the bundled Chromium, use at your own risk.

To understand the differences between `puppeteer` and `puppeteer-core` see
[the puppeteer documentation](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#puppeteer-vs-puppeteer-core)


## Usage
```ruby
# Grover.new accepts a URL or inline HTML and optional parameters for Puppeteer
grover = Grover.new('https://google.com', format: 'A4')

# Get an inline PDF
pdf = grover.to_pdf

# Get a screenshot
png = grover.to_png
jpeg = grover.to_jpeg

# Get the HTML content (including DOCTYPE)
html = grover.to_html

# Options can be provided through meta tags
Grover.new('<html><head><meta name="grover-page_ranges" content="1-3"')
Grover.new('<html><head><meta name="grover-margin-top" content="10px"')
```

N.B.
* options are underscore case, and sub-options separated with a dash
* all options can be overwritten, including `emulate_media` and `display_url`

### From a view template
It's easy to render a normal Rails view template as a PDF, using Rails' [`render_to_string`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Rendering.html#method-i-render_to_string):

```ruby
html = MyController.new.render_to_string({
  template: 'controller/view',
  layout: 'my_layout',
  locals: { :@instance_var => ... }
})
pdf = Grover.new(html, grover_options).to_pdf
```

### Relative paths
If calling Grover directly (not through middleware) you will need to either specify a `display_url` or modify your
HTML by converting any relative paths to absolute paths before passing to Grover.

This can be achieved using the HTML pre-processor helper:

```ruby
absolute_html = Grover::HTMLPreprocessor.process relative_html, 'http://my.server/', 'http'
```

This is important because Chromium will try and resolve any relative paths via the display url host. If not provided,
the display URL defaults to `http://example.com`.

#### Why would you pre-process the HTML rather than just use the `display_url`
There are many scenarios where specifying a different host of relative paths would be preferred. For example, your
server might be behind a NAT gateway and the display URL in front of it. The display URL might be shown in the
header/footer, and as such shouldn't expose details of your private network.

If you run into trouble, take a look at the [debugging](#debugging) section below which would allow you to inspect the
page content and devtools.


## Configuration
Grover can be configured to adjust the layout of the resulting PDF/image.

For available PDF options, see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagepdfoptions

Also available are the `emulate_media`, `cache`, `viewport`, `timeout` and `launch_args` options.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.options = {
    format: 'A4',
    margin: {
      top: '5px',
      bottom: '10cm'
    },
    user_agent: 'Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; Win64; x64; rv:47.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/47.0',
    viewport: {
      width: 640,
      height: 480
    },
    prefer_css_page_size: true,
    emulate_media: 'screen',
    bypass_csp: true,
    media_features: [{ name: 'prefers-color-scheme', value: 'dark' }],
    timezone: 'Australia/Sydney',
    vision_deficiency: 'deuteranopia',
    extraHTTPHeaders: { 'Accept-Language': 'en-US' },
    geolocation: { latitude: 59.95, longitude: 30.31667 },
    focus: '#some-element',
    hover: '#another-element',
    cache: false,
    timeout: 0, # Timeout in ms. A value of `0` means 'no timeout'
    launch_args: ['--font-render-hinting=medium'],
    wait_until: 'domcontentloaded'
  }
end
```

For available PNG/JPEG options, see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagescreenshotoptions

Note that by default the `full_page` option is set to false and you will get a 800x600 image. You can either specify
the image size using the `clip` options, or capture the entire page with `full_page` set to `true`.

For `viewport` options, see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagesetviewportviewport

For `launch_args` options, see http://peter.sh/experiments/chromium-command-line-switches/
Launch parameter args can also be provided using a meta tag:

For `timezone` IDs see [ICUs metaZones.txt](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/icu/source/data/misc/metaZones.txt?rcl=faee8bc70570192d82d2978a71e2a615788597d1).
Passing `nil` disables timezone emulation.

The `vision_deficiency` option can be passed one of `achromatopsia`, `deuteranopia`, `protanopia`, `tritanopia`,
`blurredVision` or `none`.

The `focus` option takes a CSS selector and will focus on the first matching element after rendering is complete
(including waiting for the specified `wait_for_selector`).

The `hover` option takes a CSS selector and will hover on the first matching element after rendering is complete
(including waiting for the specified `wait_for_selector`).

```html
<meta name="grover-launch_args" content="['--disable-speech-api']" />
```

For `wait_until` option, default for URLs is `networkidle2` and for HTML content `networkidle0`.
For available options see https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagegotourl-options

The `wait_for_selector` option can also be used to wait until an element appears on the page. Additional waiting parameters can be set with the `wait_for_selector_options` options hash. For available options, see: https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagewaitforselectorselector-options.

The `wait_for_function` option can be used to wait until a specific function returns a truthy value. Additional parameters can be set with the `wait_for_function_options` options hash. For available options, see: https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagewaitforfunctionpagefunction-options-args

The `wait_for_timeout` option can also be used to wait the specified number of milliseconds have elapsed.

The `raise_on_request_failure` option, when enabled, will raise a `Grover::JavaScript::RequestFailedError`
if the initial content request or any subsequent asset request returns a bad response or times out.

The Chrome/Chromium/Firefox executable path can be overridden with the `executable_path` and `product` options.

Javascript can be executed on the page (after render and before conversion to PDF/image)
with the `execute_script` option.

#### Basic authentication
For requesting a page with basic authentication, `username` and `password` options can be provided. Note that this
only really makes sense if you're calling Grover directly (and not via middleware).

```ruby
Grover.new('<some URI with basic authentication', username: 'the username', password: 'super secret').to_pdf
```

#### Adding cookies
To set request cookies when requesting a URL, pass an array of hashes as such
_N.B._ Only the `name` and `value` properties are required.
See [page.setCookies](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pagesetcookiecookies) documentation for more details.

```ruby
myCookies = [
  { name: 'sign_username', value: 'any@any.com', domain: 'mydomain' },
  { name: '_session_id', value: '9c014df0b699d8dc08d1c472f8cc594c', domain: 'mydomain' }
]
Grover.new('<some URI with cookies', cookies: myCookies).to_pdf
```

If you need to forward the cookies from the original request, you could extract them as such:

```ruby
def header_cookies
  request.headers['Cookie'].split('; ').map do |cookie|
    key, value = cookie.split '='
    { name: key, value: value, domain: request.headers['Host'] }
  end
end
```

And give that array to Grover:

```ruby
Grover.new('<some URI with cookies', cookies: header_cookies).to_pdf
```

#### Adding style tags
To add style tags, pass an array of style tag options as such
See [page.addStyleTag](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pageaddstyletagoptions) documentation for more details.

```ruby
style_tag_options = [
  { url: 'http://example.com/style.css' },
  { path: 'style.css' },
  { content: '.body{background: red}' }
]
Grover.new('<html><body><h1>Heading</h1></body></html>', style_tag_options: style_tag_options).to_pdf
```

#### Adding script tags
To add script tags, pass an array of script tag options as such
See [page.addScriptTag](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer/blob/main/docs/api.md#pageaddscripttagoptions) documentation for more details.

```ruby
script_tag_options = [
  { url: 'http://example.com/script.js' },
  { path: 'script.js' },
  { content: 'document.querySelector("h1").style.display = "none"' }
]
Grover.new('<html><body><h1>Heading</h1></body></html>', script_tag_options: script_tag_options).to_pdf
```


#### Page URL for middleware requests (or passing through raw HTML)
If you want to have the header or footer display the page URL, Grover requires that this is passed through via the
`display_url` option. This is because the page URL is not available in the raw HTML!

For Rack middleware conversions, the original request URL (without the .pdf extension) will be passed through and
assigned to `display_url` for you. You can of course override this by using a meta tag in the downstream HTML response.

For raw HTML conversions, if the `display_url` is not provided `http://example.com` will be used as the default.

#### Header and footer templates
Should be valid HTML markup with following classes used to inject printing values into them:
* `date` formatted print date
* `title` document title
* `url` document location
* `pageNumber` current page number
* `totalPages` total pages in the document


## Middleware
Grover comes with a middleware that allows users to get a PDF, PNG or JPEG view of
any page on your site by appending .pdf, .png or .jpeg/.jpg to the URL.

### Middleware Setup
**Non-Rails Rack apps**
```ruby
# in config.ru
require 'grover'
use Grover::Middleware
```

**Rails apps**
```ruby
# in application.rb
require 'grover'
config.middleware.use Grover::Middleware
```

N.B. by default PNG and JPEG are not modified in the middleware to prevent breaking standard behaviours.
To enable them, there are configuration options for each image type as well as an option to disable the PDF middleware
(on by default).

If either of the image handling middleware options are enabled, the [ignore_path](#ignore_path) and/or
[ignore_request](#ignore_request) should also be configured, otherwise assets are likely to be handled
which would likely result in 404 responses.  

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.use_png_middleware = true
  config.use_jpeg_middleware = true
  config.use_pdf_middleware = false
end
```

### root_url
The `root_url` option can be specified either when configuring the middleware or as a global option. This is needed
when running the Grover middleware behind a URL rewriting proxy or within a containerised system.

As a middleware option:
```ruby
# in application.rb
require 'grover'
config.middleware.use Grover::Middleware, root_url: 'https://my.external.domain'
```

or as a global option:
```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.root_url = 'https://my.external.domain'
end
```

#### ignore_path
The `ignore_path` configuration option can be used to tell Grover's middleware whether it should handle/modify
the response. There are three ways to set up the `ignore_path`:
 * a `String` which matches the start of the request path.
 * a `Regexp` which could match any part of the request path.
 * a `Proc` which accepts the request path as a parameter.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  # assigning a String
  config.ignore_path = '/assets/'
  # matches `www.example.com/assets/foo.png` and not `www.example.com/bar/assets/foo.png`

  # assigning a Regexp
  config.ignore_path = /my\/path/
  # matches `www.example.com/foo/my/path/bar.png`

  # assigning a Proc
  config.ignore_path = ->(path) do
    /\A\/foo\/.+\/[0-9]+\.png\z/.match path
  end
  # matches `www.example.com/foo/bar/123.png`
end
```

#### ignore_request
The `ignore_request` configuration option can be used to tell Grover's middleware whether it should handle/modify
the response. It should be set with a `Proc` which accepts the request (Rack::Request) as a parameter.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  # assigning a Proc
  config.ignore_request = ->(req) do
    req.host == 'www.example.com'
  end
  # matches `www.example.com/foo/bar/123.png`

  config.ignore_request = ->(req) do
    req.has_header?('X-BLOCK')
  end
  # matches `HTTP Header X-BLOCK`
end
```

## Cover pages

Since the header/footer for Puppeteer is configured globally, displaying of front/back cover
pages (with potentially different headers/footers etc) is not possible.

To get around this, Grover's middleware allows you to specify relative paths for the cover page contents.
For direct execution, you can make multiple calls and combine the resulting PDFs together.

### Using middleware

You can specify relative paths to the cover page contents using the `front_cover_path` and `back_cover_path`
options either via the global configuration, or via meta tags. These paths (with query parameters) are then
requested from the downstream app.

The cover pages are converted to PDF in isolation, and then combined together with the original PDF response,
before being returned back up through the Rack stack.

_N.B_ To simplify things, the same request method and body are used for the cover page requests.

```ruby
# config/initializers/grover.rb
Grover.configure do |config|
  config.options = {
    front_cover_path: '/some/global/cover/page?foo=bar'
  }
end
```

Or via the meta tags in the original response:
```HTML
<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="grover-back_cover_path" content="/back/cover/page?bar=baz" />
  </head>
  ...
</html>
```

### Direct execution

To add a cover page using direct execution, you can make multiple calls and combine the results using the
`combine_pdf` gem.

```rb
require 'combine_pdf'

  # ...

  def invoke(file_path)
    pdf = CombinePDF.parse(Grover.new(pdf_report_url).to_pdf)
    pdf >> CombinePDF.parse(Grover.new(pdf_front_cover_url).to_pdf)
    pdf << CombinePDF.parse(Grover.new(pdf_back_cover_url).to_pdf)
    pdf.save file_path
  end
```

## Running on Heroku

To run Grover (Puppeteer) on Heroku follow these steps:
1. Add the `node` buildpack. Puppeteer requires a node environment to run.
    ```
    heroku buildpacks:add heroku/nodejs --index=1 [--remote yourappname]
    ```

1. Add the [`puppeteer` buildpack](https://elements.heroku.com/buildpacks/jontewks/puppeteer-heroku-buildpack).
Make sure the `puppeteer` buildpack runs after the `node` buildpack and before the main `ruby` buildpack.
    ```
    heroku buildpacks:add jontewks/puppeteer --index=2 [--remote yourappname]
    ```

1. Next, tell Grover to run Puppeteer in the "no-sandbox" mode by setting an ENV variable
`GROVER_NO_SANDBOX=true` on your app dyno. Make sure that you trust all
the HTML/JS you provide to Grover.
    ```
    heroku config:set GROVER_NO_SANDBOX=true [--remote yourappname]
    ```

## Debugging
If you're having trouble with converting the HTML content, you can enable some debugging options to help. These can be
enabled as global options via `Grover.configure`, by passing through to the Grover initializer, or using meta tag
options.

```ruby
debug: {
  headless: false,  # Default true. When set to false, the Chromium browser will be displayed
  devtools: true    # Default false. When set to true, the browser devtools will be displayed.
}
```

N.B.
* The headless option disabled is not compatible with exporting of the PDF.
* If showing the devtools, the browser will halt resulting in a navigation timeout


## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/Studiosity/grover.

Note that spec tests are appreciated to minimise regressions. Before submitting a PR, please ensure that:

```bash
$ rspec
```
and

```bash
$ rubocop
```
both succeed


## Special mention
Thanks are given to the great work done in the [PDFKit project](https://github.com/pdfkit/pdfkit).
The middleware and HTML preprocessing components were used heavily in the implementation of Grover.

Thanks are also given to the excellent [Schmooze project](https://github.com/Shopify/schmooze).
The Ruby to NodeJS interface in Grover is heavily based off that work. Grover previously used that gem,
however migrated away due to differing requirements over persistence/cleanup of the NodeJS worker process.  

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
